You know, our text today in the comments that we just heard center attention on our Christian hope
Very soon our loving father Jehovah is going to eliminate pain suffering
death and
Indeed as has been committed on the happy memories will just push out all the bad memories the former things will indeed have passed away
Now when I thought about Revelation chapter 21 verses 3 and 4 I thought to myself
I've heard those words
Hundreds of times and I've probably shared those words hundreds of times in our ministry and
While most of us through repetition have probably memorized those sacred thoughts a
Good question. I thought it would be
Helpful to think about is are these basic scriptural truths
Still strengthening me now are they as brother cotton just mentioned still serving as an
anchor for my soul
With that thought in mind, let's consider three questions
What is the hope as described in the scriptures?
Secondly, why do we need hope and third? How can we strengthen our hope?
First, how would you define hope?
Back in 1993 the watchtower quoted a writer who said this
Most people seem to think that hope is just a dopey form of denying the truth
Others today would equate hope with optimism or wishful thinking and
Of course the scriptures encourage positive thinking and there are benefits
Emotionally and perhaps even physically
But what do we call a desire or a wish that's not based on truth?
What is a desire or a wish that does not take Jehovah into an account?
Well, that's a dream
That's an unreality and of course none of us is true Christians want to live in Lala land or in a dream world, do we?
Of course the Bible does not use the word optimism
But it does encourage us to strengthen our hope
What is hope according to the scriptures?
The original language were used in the Bible that are translated hope
Mean to wait eagerly and to expect good
In the scriptures hope involves not only the desire for something good
But it includes the basis
For believing that good will come
That's much more meaningful than optimism
Hope like our faith is based on evidence
convincing facts
And though hope involves our eager desire for something good
It does not to start with our desires what we want or what we wish for
It's first rooted in what God wants
With regard to his purpose and what God wants for us individually
Romans chapter 5 and verse 5 tells us that such hope does not lead to disappointment
So in a brief definition we could say that scriptural hope is eager expectation based on future realities
rooted in what Jehovah has taught us
Our second question
Why is hope essential for all Christians?
Please open your Bible with me to Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 1
And notice our well-known definition of faith
But then notice how hope is associated
Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 1 says
Faith is the assured expectation of what is
hoped for the evident demonstration of
realities that are not seen
So just as faith is a requirement for us to serve Jehovah
Acceptably for our worship to not be in vain hope as an essential element of faith is also necessary for all Christians
To see the connection between faith and hope a little better
We might think about the example of Abraham
Now from a human standpoint Abraham and Sarah
Were way past child-bearing age when Jehovah promised them a son?
It's interesting that in the Scriptures both Abraham and Sarah laughed at the angelic announcement
It was an amazing and tickling prospect to them to think that they would have a baby in their older years
But how did Abraham respond to the promise?
Notice please in Romans chapter 4 and verse 18
What the Bible says
linked to this discussion of the need for hope
Romans chapter 4 and verse 18 says
Although beyond hope yet based on hope he had faith that he would become the father of many nations according to what had been said
So your offspring will be
Faith based on hope we see the connection better don't we?
You see Abraham's God-given hope gave his faith that he would have a son a firm foundation
His faith in turn brightened and strengthened his hope
So it was not only this conviction in his heart, but it was the eager anticipation of seeing what Jehovah had promised come to fulfillment
Another reason that we need hope
Has to do with the storms that you and I are undoubtedly facing now or will face before the end of the system comes
In Paul's letter to the Hebrews he illustrated
Hope as an anchor for the soul both sure and firm
So when confronting storms what do sailors both in ancient times end today often do they lower the ship's anchor
Why well if the anchor takes hold of the firm seabed it helps the ship ride out the storm
It keeps that ship away from dangerous reefs or the shoreline
Interestingly when the Apostle Paul was on that ship on route to Rome in the year 58 CE
The ship was in danger of running aground the Bible tells us that the
sailors cast out four anchors not just one four from the stern stern and
As a result the ship safely wrote out the storm
Well, it's not hard to see the connection with hope and our stormy times today is it our
Our sure and firm hope our setting our mind with eager expectation of what Jehovah has promised keeps us
Emotionally mentally and spiritually balanced no matter what is raging around us in our life in
Full-time service with our family with our finances with our health
We can weather the storms because of our eager expectation of what Jehovah has promised
Really fewer things could be more stabilizing in our life than this eager expectation of what Jehovah the God who does not lie has promised to us
Well that leads to a third question
How can we strengthen our hope?
Well as has been commented on beautifully by our four commenters
We need to think specifically about how Jehovah's promises
Apply to us
What they will mean for us and our family in the near future
Though we serve Jehovah out of love and that's our principal motivation
Jehovah wants us to think about the rewards that he has outlined for us in the scriptures
He wants us to visualize and meditate on such blessings
One sister and referring to the beautiful artwork that's in our magazines said this
When I see pictures of the coming paradise. I examine them closely as one would a travel brochure
I endeavour to see myself there because this is where I truly hope to be in God's due time
Daydreaming no
Meditation on truths on precious promises that will not lie. Yes
Notice please with me at second Peter chapter three verses 11 and 12
How the inspired council encourages us to strengthen and build up our hope and view of what's coming
Second Peter chapter three. Let's read together verses 11 and 12
Since all these things are to be dissolved in this way
With regard to what we're expecting in the near future with the great tribulation leading into Armageddon
Consider what sort of people you ought to be in holy acts of conduct and deeds of God the devotion as
You await and keep close in mind
The presence of the day of Jehovah through which the heavens will be destroyed in flames and the elements will melt in the intense heat
Notice in verse 12 that expression keep close in mind
eagerly desire literally speed up
Do you see how our positive meditation our visualizing what's to come will strengthen us?
Yes meaningful prayer
Meaningful Bible study
Meaningful reflection will help us to keep Jehovah's Day close in mind
It will help us to rejoice in the hope and then we will experience the realization of all that we've hoped for
From the God who cannot lie